In this video, we'll
introduce you to
intrusion detection and
intrusion prevention systems.
Imagine that you've
just installed
a home intrusion
security system.
You've installed
intruder sensors for
each entry and exit
point in your home,
including doors and windows.
Those sensors work
by sending out
sound waves, and when an
object touches a sound wave,
the waves bounce back to
your sensor and trigger
an alert to your phone,
notifying you that an
intrusion was detected.
An intrusion detection
system, or IDS,
works in a very similar way
to home intrusion sensors.
An intrusion detection system
is an application that monitors
system and network activity, and
produces alerts on
possible intrusions.
Like the home intrusion
sensor, IDS collects and
analyzes system information
for abnormal activities.
If something unusual
is detected,
the IDS sends out an alert
to appropriate channels
and personnel.
Now, imagine a jewelry
storefront with a window sensor.
When the sensor detects that
the window's glass
has been shattered,
it triggers a steel roll-up
door to automatically replace
the shattered window and prevent
unauthorized entry
into the store.
This is what an intrusion
prevention system does.
Intrusion prevention
systems, or IPS,
have all the same
capabilities as an IDS,
but they can do more.
They monitor system activity for
intrusions and takes
action to stop it.
Many tools have the
ability to perform
the function of
both IDS and IPS.
Some popular tools are Snort,
Zeek, Kismet, Sagan,
and Suricata.
We will be exploring Suricata
in upcoming lessons.
You might be wondering,
where do these alert
notifications go?
Well, coming up, we'll
discuss how to manage alerts
using security information
and event management tools.